---
page_title: "Provider: Redpanda"
description: |-
  The Redpanda Data Terraform provider is used to manage Redpanda Dedicated and Cloud clusters and Kafka resources within them. To connect to a Redpanda Cloud cluster, a client_id and client_secret are required.
---

# Redpanda Provider

!!! THIS IS AN ALPHA RELEASE !!!

Please be aware that all features are subject to change and may not be fully supported at this time.

The Redpanda provider is designed for managing Redpanda clusters and Kafka resources in Redpanda Dedicated and Cloud environments. It supports the provisioning, management, and configuration of clusters and Kafka resources, facilitating seamless integration into Terraform workflows.

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `automq_byoc_access_key_id` (String) Set the Access Key Id of client. AutoMQ Cloud (BYOC) requires Access Keys to manage access and authentication to different parts of the service. An Access Key consists of an access key id and a secret key. You can create and manage Access Keys by using the AutoMQ Cloud BYOC Console. Learn more about AutoMQ Cloud BYOC Console access [here](https://docs.automq.com/automq-cloud/manage-identities-and-access).
- `automq_byoc_host` (String) Set the AutoMQ BYOC environment endpoint. The endpoint like http://{hostname}:8080. You can get this endpoint when deploy environment complete.
- `automq_byoc_secret_key` (String) Set the Secret Access Key of client. AutoMQ Cloud (BYOC) requires Access Keys to manage access and authentication to different parts of the service. An Access Key consists of an access key id and a secret key. You can create and manage Access Keys by using the AutoMQ Cloud BYOC Console. Learn more about AutoMQ Cloud BYOC Console access [here](https://docs.automq.com/automq-cloud/manage-identities-and-access).

## Authentication with Redpanda Cloud

This provider requires a `client_id` and `client_secret` for authentication with Redpanda Cloud services, enabling users to securely manage their Redpanda resources. You can get these by creating an account in [Redpanda Cloud](https://cloudv2.redpanda.com/home) and then [creating a client in the Redpanda Cloud UI](https://cloudv2.redpanda.com/clients).

